SEAS 0.8 Changelog


Ideologies:
1. Project oriented.



Proper documentation and code on how to build the SEAS input database



Added Example Folder, which includes code templates and project templates






SEAS is a versatile simulation tool. Each sub folder in example represent an project prototype that uses SEAS in different ways.




Configuration Files:
	a unique configuration files should be attached to each project.


Modeling and data analysis are both important aspects that needs to be addressed

Project based executables. 

Cross sections grid:
Cross section grid should be generated for each molecule and saved individually,
Eliminating the need to regenerate it every time for every simulation scenario.



Removed Database:
1. Generally hard to debug/spin-off using databases. 
2. Sharp re/learning curve for using database for cross sections
3. May reinitiate for speed issues. Will reevaluate this issue when benchmarking






0.7 Changelog


Code Users should only touch what's in the /bin


Here is a list of new features that's planned for 0.7 version of the code




- Add 

    1. A GUI wrapper for simulation selection
        a. need list of selections
    2. Stacking Spectra by layer and by molecule
    3. make importable (ask chelsea to help)
    4. proper noise model
    5. Implemente Kevin Heng's Suggestions
        TP scaling and cross section generated on the grid.
    6. cross section database generation code
    7. mixing ratio file generator

- Modify

    1. Code directories to be compatible for testing, auxiliary and release
    2. molecule selection to allow "main" (HITRAN) molecules as biosignatures. ref to A.2
    3. Rework of NIST spectra download
    4. Rework of HITRAN line list download 
    5. Rework the json into cfg
    6. Fixed errors in the code:
    	i.interpolation pressure gone backwards


	need to add a dir checker for file saving
	remove N2 cross section? or simple replacement with empty cross section to save time....
	need to check if database exists
	need to check cross section save to see if match with 
		naming for generated cross section save?
	need to rework the generation of example_Db... and associated data intakes	
		perhaps a db checker to make sure each databse is smaller than 100mb?
	
	need a db_log output directory parameter for dbm
	need a "clean" option to remove already downloaded files

- Remove





